Lab 1-1

Questions
1. Upload the files to http://www.VirusTotal.com/ and view the reports. Does
either file match any existing antivirus signatures?

2. When were these files compiled?

3. Are there any indications that either of these files is packed or obfuscated?
If so, what are these indicators?

4. Do any imports hint at what this malware does? If so, which imports
are they?

5. Are there any other files or host-based indicators that you could look for
on infected systems?

6. What network-based indicators could be used to find this malware on
infected machines?

7. What would you guess is the purpose of these files?

Answers:

1. These files were written specifically for this book, so as of this writing,
you should not find a signature for them on VirusTotal.com. Of course, if
these files become part of the antivirus signatures as a result of the publication of this book, the results will be different.

2. Both files were compiled on December 19, 2010, within 1 minute of each
other.

3. There are no indications that either file is packed or obfuscated.

4. The interesting imports from Lab01-01.exe are FindFirstFile, FindNextFile,
and CopyFile. These imports tell us that the program searches the filesystem and copies files. The most interesting imports from Lab01-01.dll
are CreateProcess and Sleep. We also see that this file imports functions
from WS2_32.dll, which provides network functionality.

5. Examine C:\Windows\System32\kerne132.dll for additional malicious activity. Note that the file kerne132.dll, with the number 1 instead of the letter
l, is meant to look like the system file kernel32.dll. This file can be used as
a host indicator to search for the malware.

6. The .dll file contains a reference to local IP address 127.26.152.13. This
address is an artifact of this program having been created for educational
and not malicious purposes. If this was real malware, the IP address should
be routable, and it would be a good network-based indicator for use in
identifying this malware.

7. The .dll file is probably a backdoor. The .exe file is used to install or run
the DLL.

Lab 1-2

Questions

1. Upload the Lab01-02.exe file to http://www.VirusTotal.com/. Does it match
any existing antivirus definitions?

2. Are there any indications that this file is packed or obfuscated? If so,
what are these indicators? If the file is packed, unpack it if possible.

3. Do any imports hint at this program’s functionality? If so, which imports
are they and what do they tell you?

4. What host- or network-based indicators could be used to identify this
malware on infected machines?

Answers:

1. As of this writing, the file matches 3 of 41 antivirus signatures.

2. There are several indications that the program is packed with UPX. You
can unpack it by downloading UPX and running upx –d.

3. After unpacking the file, you’ll see that the most interesting imports are
CreateService, InternetOpen, and InternetOpenURL.

4. You should check infected machines for a service called Malservice and
for network traffic to http://www.malwareanalysisbook.com/

Lab 1-3

Questions
1. Upload the Lab01-03.exe file to http://www.VirusTotal.com/. Does it match
any existing antivirus definitions?
2. Are there any indications that this file is packed or obfuscated? If so,
what are these indicators? If the file is packed, unpack it if possible.
3. Do any imports hint at this program’s functionality? If so, which imports
are they and what do they tell you?
4. What host- or network-based indicators could be used to identify this
malware on infected machines?


Lab 1-4

Questions
1. Upload the Lab01-04.exe file to http://www.VirusTotal.com/. Does it match
any existing antivirus definitions?
2. Are there any indications that this file is packed or obfuscated? If so,
what are these indicators? If the file is packed, unpack it if possible.
3. When was this program compiled?
4. Do any imports hint at this program’s functionality? If so, which imports
are they and what do they tell you?
5. What host- or network-based indicators could be used to identify this
malware on infected machines?
6. This file has one resource in the resource section. Use Resource Hacker
to examine that resource, and then use it to extract the resource. What
can you learn from the resource?












Lab 3-1
Analyze the malware found in the file Lab03-01.exe using basic dynamic analysis tools.
Questions
1. What are this malware’s imports and strings?
2. What are the malware’s host-based indicators?
3. Are there any useful network-based signatures for this malware? If so,
what are they?
Lab 3-2
Analyze the malware found in the file Lab03-02.dll using basic dynamic analysis tools.
Questions
1. How can you get this malware to install itself?
2. How would you get this malware to run after installation?
3. How can you find the process under which this malware is running?
4. Which filters could you set in order to use procmon to glean
information?
5. What are the malware’s host-based indicators?
6. Are there any useful network-based signatures for this malware?
Lab 3-3
Execute the malware found in the file Lab03-03.exe while monitoring it using
basic dynamic analysis tools in a safe environment.
Questions
1. What do you notice when monitoring this malware with Process
Explorer?
2. Can you identify any live memory modifications?
3. What are the malware’s host-based indicators?
4. What is the purpose of this program?
Lab 3-4
Analyze the malware found in the file Lab03-04.exe using basic dynamic analysis tools. (This program is analyzed further in the Chapter 9 labs.)
Questions
1. What happens when you run this file?
2. What is causing the roadblock in dynamic analysis?
3. Are there other ways to run this program?

1. The malware appears to be packed. The only import is ExitProcess,
although the strings appear to be mostly clear and not obfuscated.
2. The malware creates a mutex named WinVMX32, copies itself into C:\
Windows\System32\vmx32to64.exe. and installs itself to run on system
startup by creating the registry key HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\
CurrentVersion\Run\VideoDriver set to the copy location.
3. The malware beacons a consistently sized 256-byte packet containing
seemingly random data after resolving www.practicalmalwareanalysis.com