Preparation Phase

*The purpose of the the programme was simple yet elaborate. It was for Pathlight students to learn more about Ngee Ann Polytechnic in addition to learning Python from us, and for us 
Ngee Ann students to broaden our horizons by dealing with special needs students, an experience that is rare. Through our planning, we will also learn
how to teach concepts in layman terms which will improve our teaching and explaning skills and teach us as a class to work as one collective unit. *

After hearing of the FP2 assignment brief, I immediately dreaded the idea of having to teach special needs students python as well as show them around our campus. 
I believed that the whole event would be extremely awkward and unfulfilling for both parties. *Additionally, with my limited knowledge of pathlight and its students, I
was of the opinion that them and us were like oil and water. Meaning that we were too different, so different that there would be apparent gaps
in the way that we deal with others as well as perceive reality to a point that it did not make any sense for us to have an activity like this. I was arrogant in the way I saw 
Pathlight and its students*. Furthermore, the class was put on short notice and had only 3 weeks 
to plan the entire event out, together with the fact that I believed we had too many students (23) planning for 2 activities, I did not envision this event going 
well. 

After the entire first week of not planning anything, I decided that I had to take initiative like what Dr. Divyan said as this event was graded. As such, I signed 
myself up to be the Design IC as well as a member of the python group. In hindsight even though this was a small step, it was the catalyst to me actually contributing 
and planning for the event which I am grateful for. 

I created telegram group chats for the respective teams that our class agreed on. This included a python, design, and campus tour telegram chat. 
Through this medium, our class collectively started to make some progress in planning for the project and this was obviously spearheaded by Sherlena. 
Speaking of which, I also had a takeaway from Sherlena. I found her boldness and proactiveness to be particularly admirable and when I asked her why 
she replied that she wanted the event to go well. This greatly contrasted the reason why I was trying, which was to get a good grade and you could 
say it was at this point I decided to put in more effort to plan and make this event fruitful.

The design team is small compared to the other teams. However, it was here that the best collaboration took place. 
We created two items to give to the students which included a certificate and a keychain. During the design and planning process for 
both items, the group was responsive, gave constructive criticism, and never shut anybody’s opinions down but rather talked through the differences. 
Together we managed to design the certificate during the second week of school as well as design, plan and make the keychains for the 
students with a very tight schedule. Having the privilege to be a part of this group, I learned what good communication meant, 
what cohesiveness was, and the means to be a useful contributor.

*As the design team leader, I was responsible for designing the certificate to make it presentable to both students, teachers and parents
such that it was something that they could be proud of having. I aided in the keychain design, from choosing the font of the words, to the dimensions of the keychain
,and lastly printing out prototypes of the keychains. Lastly, I also helped with the Python slides by creating the Data Structure portion of the slides.*

Event Phase

I have always enjoyed dealing with children but as the event neared, doubts grew in me as I had no understanding of how a child with special needs would operate 
and the necessary actions which had to be taken to properly care for and mentor them. These concerns were quickly cast away soon after meeting the students. After 
interacting with the students, I realized that they were generally very easy to talk to. I also learned more about their tendencies and how to better deal with 
high-functioning autistic children. For instance, they are a lot more honest in their way of speech and will not sugar coat their words to make them sound better, 
their line of thinking is more focused and direct and they tend to express their emotions differently compared to other people. This has greatly helped broaden my horizon
allowing me to better empathize and understand people who have or who are dealing with people diagnosed with autism. During the ice-breakers, they would use phrases 
such as "I hate him less than (name)" or "(name) is not a nice person". These figures of speech really shed some light on the minds of these students for me.

During the python lesson, I was mentoring a student named ZX (name is changed for privacy reasons) and prior to this, I had no grasp of these students intellectual capabilities.
Initially, I expected him to struggle greatly with concepts that were going to be brought up due to his young age and perhaps condition. To my surprise he was able to grasp the concept
taught and beyond, many of the things I taught he could understand immediately which was more than impressive. 
This cleared another misconception of mine, which was that even high-functioning autism has an effect on one's intellectual capabilities. However, more strikingly, 
his enthusiasm for learning really struck me as a breath of fresh air. He listened to whatever I said attentively, practiced willingly, and was receptive to feedback
whenever it was given. He showed me what the love of learning looked like and inspired me to do the same in my life. 

Lastly, we gave the students a campus tour around Ngee Ann Polytechnic, showing them places of interest that our school has to offer. Here, I noticed the difference 
in the ways the teachers dealt with the students compared to what I normally saw. The teachers would laugh along with the students, and they would affirm the students
if they did well, but they would also discipline the students in a very direct manner and reason and debate with students should the students misbehave. This was
a stark contrast with how normal teacher-student dynamics were in my experience. Yet again, this reinforces the point that it is vital that you be direct in your 
communication with these students as lingo such as sarcasm will be taken literally and have an unintended effect. It also shows a lack of a language filter in 
the way these students communicate. 


Post-Event Phase
 
Overall, I greatly enjoyed my time at this event, I had my first experience interacting with and teaching special needs students and have learned a lot about and from them. 
From the preparation phase of the event, planning for the event in under 3 weeks, to the event itself, having to overcome my nerves and doubts in dealing with the students,
to finally enjoying the companionship of the students, I have new found understanding and respect towards people with special needs and I have also learned a lot about how 
to be a better teammate, a better teacher, and a better man.




 
